Add workflow to guidelines (#46)
abtion/guidelines: best-practices/workflow.md

# Abtion's development workflow

> Abtion’s development workflow may vary depending on the project. Teams are encouraged to experiment with the most efficient way to reliably deliver value to our clients. The standard flow is described here. It should be the base from where teams start and the destination, when a team discovers a more efficient way of working.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Abtion’s development workflow may vary depending on the project. Teams are encouraged to experiment with the most efficient way to reliably deliver value to our clients. The standard flow is described here. It should be the base from where teams start. When a team discovers a more efficient way of working, they should contribute it back to this document.
```

## Our philosophy:

- We trust our colleges as professional developers.
- We engage in discussions with an eye on productivity. We accept that a discussion might be counter-productive if the time we spend debating surpasses the benefits of the discussion.
- We accept that we might be wrong.
- We want to improve any codebase that we work on.
- We want to learn.
- We want to educate our coworkers.

## Goals

> - Delivery quality code at a fast pace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Deliver quality code at a fast pace.
```

> - Maintain all team members informed of the changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Allow for all team members to be informed of the changes.
```

> - Have a low defect rate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Have a low regression rate.
```

Reviewer: As I understand regression, it means working features stops working. But it doesn't not cover releasing new features defect free. Is that correct?

Reviewer 3: Yes, that is correct, and we can certainly include both here :) Automated testing, pairing, and close client involvement should leave our defect rates at close to 0 also!

> - Have a fast acceptance rate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Have a fast acceptance rate by the product owner or client.
```

- Be flexible to any sudden change in priority.

## Workflow
We follow trunk base development. If you are not familiar with it, you can read on https://trunkbaseddevelopment.com. Specifically, we want to avoid large branches/differences between environments. They have been identified as a way to create a knowledge gap in the team and between the client.

- Developers work in pairs.
- A pair always takes the first card from the backlog. The backlog is already prioritized.
- A pair will work on the card until is ready. Pair switches might occur during the process.
- We always branch out from main* and we merge to main.
- We use short-lived branches to play around with the code.

> - When merging to main, we automatically deploy to production. We may use a test environment** which must always be synchronized with production.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When merging to main, we automatically deploy to production if appropriate for the client. We may use a test environment** which must always be synchronized with production with private information obfuscated for security.
```

Author: If it is not appropriate, we should use feature flags

Reviewer 3: Agree. In this case I was thinking about far-out examples of firmware or medical software that require a different cycle.

> - When merging to main, we automatically deploy to production. We may use a test environment** which must always be synchronized with production.

Author: ```suggestion
- When merging to main, we automatically deploy to production. We may use a test environment** which must always be synchronized with production with private information obfuscated for security. We use feature flags for coordinating feature releases with the client.
```

> - Acceptance will occur by the product owner*** in the test environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Feature ccceptance will occur by the product owner*** in the test environment.
- Tech Chore acceptance will occur by developers*** in the test environment.
```

> - A pair will merge directly to main whenever they feel confident (see “we trust our colleges as professional developers"). They may request feedback from other developers by asking them directly or indirectly opening a "Pull Request" in Github. They should gather feedback from the product owner during IPM, standup, Show & Tell and any necessary on-call meeting to ensure that they are developing the right product.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A pair will merge directly to main whenever they feel confident (see “we trust our colleges as professional developers"). They may request feedback from other developers by asking them directly or indirectly opening a "Pull Request" in Github. They should gather feedback from the product owner during IPM, standup, Show & Tell and any necessary ad-hoc meetings to ensure that they are developing the right product.
```

- The developers have the responsibility to move the card to a "ready for acceptance” column in Asana. This implies that they genuinely believe the card is ready.

> - When the backlog runs out of tasks, developers will take cards from the Icebox. The icebox is already prioritized.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If the backlog runs out of tasks, developers will let product know, and will work on technical debt until product has prioritized feature work.
```

Reviewer: Should `product` in this change suggestion be `product owner/manager`?

# Abtion's development workflow

Abtion’s development workflow may vary depending on the project. Teams are encouraged to experiment with the most efficient way to reliably deliver value to our clients. The standard flow is described here. It should be the base from where teams start. When a team discovers a more efficient way of working, they should contribute it back to this document.

## Our philosophy:

> - We trust our colleges as professional developers.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- We trust our colleagues as professional developers.
```

- We engage in discussions with an eye on productivity. We accept that a discussion might be counter-productive if the time we spend debating surpasses the benefits of the discussion.
- We accept that we might be wrong.

> - We want to improve any codebase that we work on.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- We want to improve any codebase we work on.
```

- We want to learn.
- We want to educate our coworkers.

## Goals

- Deliver quality code at a fast pace.
- Allow for all team members to be informed of the changes.

> - Have a low defect rate.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Have a low defect and regression rate.
```
👍

- Have a fast acceptance rate by the product owner or client.
- Be flexible to any sudden change in priority.

## Workflow
We follow trunk base development. If you are not familiar with it, you can read on https://trunkbaseddevelopment.com. Specifically, we want to avoid large branches/differences between environments. They have been identified as a way to create a knowledge gap in the team and between the client.

- Developers work in pairs.
- A pair always takes the first card from the backlog. The backlog is already prioritized.

> - A pair will work on the card until is ready. Pair switches might occur during the process.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- A pair will work on the card until it is ready. Pair switches might occur during the process.
```

- We always branch out from main* and we merge to main.
- We use short-lived branches to play around with the code.
- When merging to main, we automatically deploy to production. We may use a test environment** which must always be synchronized with production.
- Feature acceptance will occur by the product owner*** in the test environment.
- Tech Chore acceptance will occur by developers*** in the test environment.

> - A pair will merge directly to main whenever they feel confident (see “we trust our colleges as professional developers"). They may request feedback from other developers by asking them directly or indirectly opening a "Pull Request" in Github. They should gather feedback from the product owner during IPM, standup, Show & Tell and any necessary ad-hoc meetings to ensure that they are developing the right product.

Reviewer: I prefer to create pull requests and merge them without waiting for feedback, to avoid pushing code that fails in CI and will hinder other teams progress if they base their work on it.

Author: I had that in mind when creating this document. As I understand it, this allows for that workflow, as short-lived branches are included. Perhaps we can rephrase something to make it more obvious?

> - A pair will merge directly to main whenever they feel confident (see “we trust our colleges as professional developers"). They may request feedback from other developers by asking them directly or indirectly opening a "Pull Request" in Github. They should gather feedback from the product owner during IPM, standup, Show & Tell and any necessary ad-hoc meetings to ensure that they are developing the right product.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- A pair will merge directly to main whenever they feel confident (see “we trust our colleagues as professional developers"). They may request feedback from other developers by asking them directly or indirectly opening a "Pull Request" in Github. They should gather feedback from the product owner during IPM, standup, Show & Tell and any necessary ad-hoc meetings to ensure that they are developing the right product.
```
